[Mike] Hello, and welcome to the next session
of the WordPress Accessibility Day. I am your
host, Mike Demo, and helping us in the chat
moderator, is Kayla Demopoulos. Our next session
is going to be by Joe Hall. Joe has been a
WordPress developer and SEO for the last 11
years. He first became interested in Accessibility
Consulting back in the 90s, but mostly does
technical SEO for medium-sized companies,
non-profit, and enterprise-level brands. He
is passionate about accessible, highly optimized,
and fast WordPress themes. Joe's talk is going
to be about SEO and Web Accessibility: Partners
for a Better Internet. If you have any questions,
please make sure to put them into the chat,
and we will get those at the end. And please
remember that there is a code of conduct for
this event, and we're all part of the same
WordPress community. Um, with that, thank
you so much, and welcome, Joe!
[Joe Hall] I am looking forward to this conversation!
I'm gonna start my slides, here. Um, okay
so uh this talk is called uh SEO and Web Accessibility:
Partners for a Better Internet.
Um and I'm going to get started here. Okay,
so let's get started with some definitions.
Uh this talk is geared towards uh folks that
are interested in SEO uh, but also for folks
that are interested in accessibility obviously.
Um and so because we're talking to uh two
separate uh groups, I thought it might be
smart to do some uh basic definitions, so
that we're all on the same page. And so when
we talk about web accessibility, um web accessibility
is the inclusive practice of ensuring there
is no barriers that prevent interaction with
or access to websites on the world wide web,
for people with all types of disabilities.
And when we talk about SEO, uh we're talking
about search engine optimization, uh the process
of increasing the quality and quantity of
website traffic, by increasing the visibility
of a website or web page to users of a web
search engine. This may involve increasing
rankings found within the results, or improving
uh the presentation of existing listings or
rankings.
And you know, something, one of the really
interesting aspects of of SEO and web accessibility
as a practice, if this is something you do
professionally, or you're just interested
in it, um these two things can influence many
of the same areas of product development.
So they both touch on User Experience, Design
and Information Architecture, Content Development,
and Content Optimization and Technical Infrastructure
uh. So it makes sense that if there are so
many overlapping areas that we should be working
closer together with each other um. It might
be smart to go uh to dispel some myths uh,
because there are lots of myths around both
practices um and it's smart to be on the same
page uh. So myth number one:
Accessibility is only focused on improving
access for the visually impaired. I, I see
a lot of SEOs with this uh, with this myth
and and the truth is that um accessibility
is focused on lots of different types of disabilities:
Visual Impairments, Motor or Mobility Impairments,
Auditory or Hearing Impairments, uh Seizure
Disorders, uh Cognitive or Intellectual disabilities.
So we're talking about a cross disability
spectrum, not just visual impairments. Uh
myth number two: SEO is only about optimizing
content uh with keywords. Um so this comes
up a lot uh with with folks that have sort
of a cursory understanding of SEO, but the
truth is that SEO follows uh technical best
practices. Um it looks at external signals
such as, links or citations. It informs the
design or information architecture process
and then of course it does focus on uh content
optimization. Another myth that I hear
a lot of SEOs make is that: excellent SEO
means uh full accessibility or vice versa,
and that full accessibility means excellent
SEO. And we'll take a look in this talk about
how the two practices uh overlap each other
and how having good accessibility, can mean
in some ways, that you do, when you're doing
the right thing for SEO, um and then vice
versa with SEO for accessibility, but but
it's a it's a myth to assume that just because
you have great accessibility that somehow
you're going to do really well with SEO. Or
that just because you have great SEO, that
you know your website is accessible um. That's
just not the case and we'll, we'll look into
that uh in a moment.
So let's start talking about some of the areas
of overlap and conflict. I've put together
a Venn diagram here and everything that's
listed on this diagram is of course not a
complete list of either practice. This is
just an example of some of the things that
might be found in each area and how some things
overlap. And on the uh on the left side, here
I have SEO and in the SEO quadrant of this
Venn diagram I have listed: Page Speed, Structured
Data, External Links, Mobile Indexing and
AMP? And then on the Accessibility only section
of the Venn diagram I have: ARIA, Screen Readers,
HTML Landmarks, uh Keyboard Access, and Form
Optimization. Some of the main, you know shared
areas, that overlap between SEO and Accessibility
are: Information Architecture, uh we use some
Anchor Text, Content Optimization and Media
Optimization. And so we'll take a look at
some of these overlapping areas now and see
how they work together and how sometimes they
can cause conflicts as well.
Um, so we'll start off with Information Architecture.
So with navigation items um you know, for
SEO, navigation items should follow the information
architecture, have simple but descriptive
labels and point to main sections of the site.
And you know for SEO, this is great, because
uh these help build internal links uh site-wide,
which helps spread link equity and helps the
search engines find all the main sections
of the site. For accessibility, navigation
items should have a simple and descriptive
labels and this is, you know, primarily for
ease of navigation and uh those navigation
items should be easy uh for the user to understand
and find um easily. Unordered list, uh so
in HTML we have, you know, different types
of lists. We have unordered lists and and
numbered list. Typically when we're making
an information architecture or or navigation
uh, we'll use an unordered list um and then
also, we'll use it also, for you know things
like tertiary navigation as well on the page.
Um search engines prefer organized content
and clean HTML uh for navigation. So an unordered
list is really great for search engines, because
they can easily understand that these links
belong together as a set and they'll either
parse those um as uh parts of the featured
snippet, if you're doing things like featured
snippet optimization um or other things.
But for accessibility, uh screen readers will
parse unordered lists of links for menus.
And so it's it's really helpful uh to think
about organizing, you know, your your navigation
um especially sub-navigation or tertiary navigations
uh into unordered list, for both SEO and accessibility.
Anchor Text: so this is our first item that
has a little bit of conflict uh. We'll start
with the SEO part of it. Search engines use
anchor text uh to associate keywords within
target pages that those links are linked to.
And so when we talk about anchor text, we're
talking about the text found within a link
and so for SEO, uh search engines use that
text to associate the terminology that should
be associated with the page that the link
is pointing to. And then for accessibility,
uh screen readers will list links independently
of content.
And therefore, anchor text should not rely
on the context of the content um, it is found
in. So in other words, your anchor text should
never be like, you know, click here, or you
know, download this. That kind of thing. Um
it should always be descriptive of the page
that it's linking to, so that when those links
are pulled out of the content and and made
into a independent navigation menu,
it's easier to understand what those links
go to. Some conflicts. So SEOs have a tendency
uh to stuff a bunch of keywords within uh
anchor text. Like I said before, it's because
that anchor text can influence the terms that
the search engines will uh associate with
that target page. And so you want to make
sure that as you are optimizing your anchor
text, that that anchor text is also useful
for accessibility. You don't want to just
jam up a bunch of keywords in your anchor
text so that when those links are taken out
of the content mega menu, uh they still have
to make sense. Uh so it's really important
for SEOs not to just jam up a bunch of keywords
into the anchor text and make for a bad navigation
for screen readers. Let's go to Content Optimization.
So heading tags, you know, these are like
your H1 H2, H3 tags uh for SEO they should
structure the content with main and sub-headings,
uh use tags consecutively and include the
target terms. And generally you want to use
like one H1
tag per page and then underneath that use
consecutive order, you know, H2 H3 uh, H4,
you know, uh down. For accessibility, uh screen
readers use uh these heading tags uh for content
navigation um. And so you again, you wanna
use the same structure they would use for
SEO um and use a very descriptive content
within the heading tags that would describe
the content for that section of the page.
And so a good balance for SEO and accessibility,
is that you know, you you can label the these
heading tags with content that includes,
you know, descriptive keywords that also describe
uh the content that um the headings represent.
Title Tags: so title tags are a very important
part of SEO um and so title tag should include
unique targeting keywords for rankings of
an increase, increased clickthrough rates.
For accessibility, title tags should include
unique terms for navigation. Um, now a conflict
that I
see sometimes is that SEO sometimes include
uh marketing language in the content in the
title tags, uh such as clickthrough, uh calls
to action, to increase clickthrough rates.
And so basically the the reasons this happens
is, because uh the search snippet, the what
you see within the search results, that title
there is taken from a title tag and so SEOs
oftentimes like to write kind of eye-popping
marketing language within the title tag to
get users to click on uh their search result,
within the search rankings um.
And that's fine, but a problem with that is
that, that can get in the way of providing
a useful navigation item. If you think about
title tags as sort of a way to navigate through
the pages, either through using tabs on your
browser, or navigation within a list of bookmarks,
that kind of thing, you should always kind
of keep your title tags um as easy to understand
as possible. And you can find a good balance
between having a good call to action, but
also making it so it's, you know, kind of
concise and easy to understand that's the
best method. Um, so Keywords and Language:
so you want to use keywords for SEO of in
a natural way. You know historically SEOs
have been kind of notorious about, you know,
pumping a bunch of keywords in the content
and trying to kind of force their content
into those results.That's no longer as popular
anymore as it used to be, which is a good
thing, because for accessibility, content
should adhere to good readability standards
and should be easily understood. These two
things really go together in my mind, because
uh the search engines are starting to employ
more and more natural language processing
which attempts to understand the content the
way a human being would read it. And so therefore,
you know, using a bunch of targeted keywords,
uh and writing your content in a way that
doesn''t sound natural,
may be not so smart for either SEO or accessibility.
So it's always good to use natural language
and to use content that that makes sense both
for all users, you know, search engines and
uh human beings. Hidden Content: so I saw
this mentioned earlier today um in someone's
uh talk and for SEO, hidden content is not
detected by search engines. And in some cases
it can be a violation of their quality guidelines.
In accessibility, you can hide content from
visual users um, but then make it accessible
to screen readers um, And so there's different
reasons why you might want to do this. So
for example, you might have a completely separate
navigation just for screen readers, but you
don't want that navigation to be visible to
users, you know, visual users. And that's
understandable, but accessibility professionals
should not hide content that is critical for
SEO. And this is just kind of common sense
in a way, because if we follow the principles
of
universal design, then we are making all of
the content, you know, kind of equally accessible
to all different users. And so, you know,
if there's a special case where okay you have
to hide a certain navigation just for screen
readers,
that's understandable uh, but if you are hiding
content just for screen readers and some of
that content has links in it that is not available
to the visual users, then those links are
not going to be uh used for SEO. So just keep
in mind that, you know, when you're hiding
content, you need to keep things equal on
both ends. You know, that same content that
maybe is hidden from visual users needs to
be kind of represented in some way um especially
internal links, because those are very important
for SEO. So Media Optimization: so one of
the things that SEOs talk about whenever uh
accessibility comes up is alt tags for images
um. And SEOs tend to like to optimize alt
text for images, because search engines utilize
the text found in um alt attributes uh to
associate keywords for an understanding of
the image. And so I, I think initially when
search engines started doing this, it was
a really great idea, because you know if you
use the alt tags the way they're supposed
to be, then you will include a very descriptive
um description of the image. And so obviously
the search engines thought, oh we can just
take those out and we'll know what the image
is then. Um and I think that's true still
today. However, one of the conflicts I found
is that SEOs generally don't write very good
alt text. They just stuff the alt text full
of keywords. And I've actually noticed where
it's become a common place in WordPress, to
basically just take, like the title of the
post, and pop that into the image alt text
or, or even if it's, if you're using something
like WooCommerce,
sometimes they'll take like the product name
and put that into the alt text of uh the product
image. Um in some cases that stuff works,
but but if you're if you're a blogger and,
you know, you're writing about something,
you have an image in your article, it's likely
that the title of the blog post is not going
to match up with a description of the image
that you're posting. Uh so it's really important
not to do that kind of stuff, and it's a really
easy way I think to optimize the alt text,
because, you know, if you have like 200 images
that are missing alt text, it's super easy
just to go in and change your uh WordPress
theme to do that, but in the end it doesn't
really serve uh your user, your users that
use screen readers uh very much at all. Um
and oftentimes, it actually doesn't really
provide much value for SEO either uh, because
they're not really a good description of the
image at all either uh. So, you know, it is
kind of a pain in the butt, but it's always
better to write your own alt text by hand
and not try to optimize it or or or automate
it. Videos: so I see a lot of folks that do
videos and the obvious accessibility approach
to videos is to include uh closed captioning.
Um and closed captioning is, has become relatively
more accepted, and a lot easier to implement.
I watch different platforms um. For SEO, what
you can do is, you can take the same transcript
of, for the closed captions and utilize that
for SEO content. Uh so you can put that on
the same page as the video. If you have an
embedded video, you can totally just take
the closed captioning content uh and then
put that on the same page as a, you know,
video transcript.
And that turns into a really great optimized,
SEO friendly content for the video um. And
the same thing for podcasts. You can, you
can do the same thing for podcasts. Podcasts
are very popular now. Uh if you have an audio
transcript, that can be placed on the same
page um as uh the podcast is embedded in.
And that creates a really great thing for
SEO um and also for screen readers that would
just read the uh audio transcript that's on
the page where the podcast um is embedded.
Um so that wraps up the majority of uh this
talk and the talk went a little faster than
I anticipated, but I do have some closing
thoughts. So the best way to optimize for
both accessibility and SEO is to work alongside
amazing professionals that specialize in each.
And I really can't stress this enough, because
I feel like um SEO and accessibility, because
it touches on so many different areas and
because uh each one of the practices uh can
be very detail-oriented and very specific
to different types of websites, or are very
specific and different types of clients, it's
really difficult to be a Jack or or Jane of
all trades and do both. Uh so I would encourage
everyone to make friends uh with an SEO or
an accessibility professional, and encourage
them to work alongside you, and and develop
projects together and share in your own experience
um to to build uh better products. Of course,
you can both learn about each other's, you
know, fields and and do the best you can,
but it's really important to have someone
that really knows what they're doing um and
with lots of experience.
My name is Joe Hall and you can reach me at
these websites and at the end here I've included
some more reading for the SEO folks. Here's
some further read on accessibility. And then
for the accessibility folks, here is some
further reading on SEO. That is it.
[Mike] Cool, great job. A lot of great information
in there Joe, so we have some questions that
we're going to uh go through and we'll see
how many time, um questions we have time for.
If you still have questions, that's cool.
Kayla's still posting them. Please just put
them into the chat. So the first question
is: Do you have any recommendations for making
sure you're using appropriate language for
users in SEO?
[Joe] I think that you need to primarily,
I'm sorry Mike, did you say for
users and SEO, or for accessibility and SEO?
[Mike] Sure um let me repeat it. Do you have
any recommendations for making sure you are
using appropriate language for users and SEO?
[Joe] Okay, so you should just, I mean, really
you should write um like you would if you
were not focused on SEO. I mean, in my opinion
uh there are lots and lots of factors uh that
go into ranking a web page. And if you are
mindful of the types of terms that you want
that web page to rank for, you can utilize
those terms um you know intentionally, uh
here and there um, but you don't need to uh,
you don't need to,
you don't need to um, you don't need to over
optimize and use too much. You can uh, you
can just, you know, use your natural language
and and talk as if you uh, as if you would
in any other format. You know, um use some
terminology intentionally if you are thinking
of certain things, but you know, just just
talk like you normally would, you know.
[Mike] Sure and a similar question uh that
I actually have,
is: How do you SEO for language, you know,
now that pronouns are becoming a bit a bit,
you know, different and, you know, they could
be they/them pronouns. Is SEO catching up
when you use those less traditional pronouns
in your copy?
[Joe] Yeah, it's a really good question. I
had never thought of that. So I think that
one of the things that we talk about about
SEO, is something called query intent, and
so understanding why someone is searching
uh for your content um and um.
I can't imagine a situation where gendered
pronouns would require, what would like really
be required uh, because, you know, a lot of
times we think about SEO, we're thinking about
uh proper nouns. You know, like we're thinking
about, like you know, the names of things
and people you know. And so, I don't think
that it really matters too much about what
kind of pronouns you use. If you wanted to
use like uh non-gendered pronouns, I think
that would work the same way, you know. I
will say that, and this goes back to like
query intent, if what you're, if what you're
publishing could be searched for verbatim,
then you don't maybe want to like change the
pronouns, right. So like, if you have like
a text that's maybe really well known,
like lyrics or something like that, um it
it might be tempting to go in there and take
out all the gender pronouns, but but it probably
would not be great for SEO, you know, but
but again like I said, I can't imagine a way
that they would, that that would cause an
issue. I, I don't think so, um yeah.
[Mike] We have another question, um from the
chat: What are the easiest wins for us to
fold into our accessibility work in terms
of SEO? I know you touched on this a little
bit on your talk.
[Joe] So I think an easy, uh some of the easy
wins is uh to think about, like like I mentioned
with uh some of the captioning, content and
some of the um, some of the transcripts for
podcasts. That kind of stuff. Like you know,
for example with YouTube for example, you
know, if you have a captioning transcript
that you uploaded with your video on YouTube,
um go ahead and paste that into the description
of the YouTube page. Um and that will help
that YouTube video rank higher uh in search
engines um, because that content is inaccessible
to the search engines. Um that's a really
good easy win. Um another easy win is to think
about how uh, how your heading tags are are
optimized. You know, you for for accessibility,
you want your headings to
to be descriptive of the content you know
um, but if you can pull that off while while
also like plopping in a keyword here and there
that that might work really well for that
page, uh for SEO, that's a really smart move.
You know, um and the title tag as well, like
you know, really you know for accessibility,
you want really easy to read title tags, but
if you can kind of combine that with the proper
keyword usage that that really helps too,
you know.
[Mike] Yeah I'm always a big fan of taking
content you've already created and getting
more leverage out of it. So if it's video
content, taking the captions or the transcriptions...
[Joe] Absolutely.
[Mike] Podcast same thing. On that same note,
do you um, there are obviously like free captioning
and translation tools and then you can pay
like a service like Rev to have it human edited.
Do you think it's worth to pay for a professional
to make sure that it's verbatim and like there's
no errors in the computerized translation?
Or do you think the computerized, you know,
the automated stuff that's either cheap or
free is good enough? Or does it depend on
the project?
[Joe] Uh for captioning?
[Mike] Yeah.
[Joe] I think it's probably a good idea to
[Alexa] I'm not sure
[Mike] Bye Alexa, sorry.
[Joe] Okay, I think it's probably a good idea
to go ahead and um integrate some humid, some
human editorial stuff on your captioning.
Um you know, one of the things I like to do
is uh I'll go ahead and like upload a video
to YouTube and I'll let the YouTube's um automated,
you know, captioning project uh do the captioning
and then I'll go back and edit those myself,
because it saves me a lot of time of versus
having to go out and like actually edit, you
know, everything. There is some stuff you
can do like, I, I work in, you know, digital
marketing, so sometimes we'll have like uh
video content made um and when we do that
we'll have a script written ahead of time
um. And if you do that, then you've already
got it written, you've already got the captioning
written right there. You just have to put
in the time stamps for it um. So I think a
good balance between the automated and me
uh and the human kind of uh approach is best,
you know. Yeah.
[Mike] Sure um yeah, you know get the head
start on the automated stuff and then clean
it up a little bit yourself. Excellent. Another
question we got on the chat is: How important
is alt attributes in SEO ranking and accessibility?
So it's important for uh for SEO. It's important
for image search. So when you go to Google
and you go to the Google image search and
you, you know, type a questionnaire or some
keywords you get a bunch of images. Uh that's
how Google ranks those images, is by using
alt text and then also the text found around
the image. Um and so for SEO, that that's
what, that's really important.
Uh but for uh accessibility, obviously uh
that's very important for uh screen readers
and, you know, like I mentioned before, um
having a good balance between the two is important.
Um I really think it's important to maybe
go the accessibility route more when doing
alt text. Uh and if you're able to throw in
some keywords that's great uh, but at the
end of the day you don't want to just jam
a bunch of keywords into the alt text, because
that's not really good accessibility, at all.
And and honestly it's not really good for
SEO either. SEO needs to be natural language,
needs to have, make sense to human beings
and and search crawlers, you know. [Mike]
Yeah and I know Twitter, I believe, just launched
their alt text feature for images [unitelligible].
[Joe] Yeah they did. It's been really nice
um and that's been good because Twitter actually
ranks really well uh for SEO. And so it's
good for them, because they're probably picking
up a lot of uh a lot of new image searches,
uh because of that um, but it also helps rank
their images uh for people searching on web
too, you know. So that's good.
[Mike] Yeah we have another question. It says:
Would you say that the argument that accessibility
professionals should not hide content also
argues that if designers want text hidden,
maybe it's better for all users that it stay
visible?
[Joe] Uh I'm not sure I understand the last
part of that question. [Mike] Yeah, so I'm
not exactly sure on the context here. I kind
of just read it. So, maybe there is uh a user
interface that maybe some text is hidden unless
there's a certain element um engaged with,
versus maybe showing that uh text at the first.
[Joe] Okay, yeah yeah I understand now. So
for SEO
um Google's crawlers uh utilize Chrome. So
they actually, like Google's crawlers actually
is based on Chrome now um and so what it does
is it it renders the page as if it's being
opened in Chrome.
However, it does not utilize a mouse uh. So
user interface interaction um does not really
help with the SEO, so so content is hidden
behind a a tab or a module or or something
that requires you know like user interface,
a user interaction, um SEO or search engines
will not see it. Now this is actually a a
kind of a debated topic among SEO nerds um,
but generally speaking we have to go with
what Google says and they say they don't,
you know uh they don't surface content that's
not you know visible without um without user
interaction. Now that being said, like you
know, screen readers for example, um a lot
of websites hide uh separate navigations just
for screen readers. Um and I think that that
that's fine um, you know, if if you are hiding
content that's that's just for screen readers
uh, just make sure it's the same content that
would be needed for SEO. Well you know, you
don't want to hide anything that could have
value from an SEO perspective. Um you want
to keep everything kind of visible um and
you know so that search engines can parse
it and utilize it, you know, in a visual format.
[Mike] Uh certainly. Another question we got
is: How do you prioritize to give focus to
client content to rank more positively with
SEO?
[Joe] How do you prioritize clients?
[Mike] How, I'm trying to parse the question,
so I'm I'm I'm guessing, they're mean like,
how do you work with clients to make sure
that they get their message across, but you
can do your job.
You know SEO, like that balance between what
the client copy wants and then also what the
project requires.
[Joe] Yeah yeah, so so that's a difficult
thing um. One thing that,
and I mean I got, I could probably write a
book on this question uh, but I won't uh.
So one thing that you can, it obviously is
different for every client, right. So some
clients are going to be more flexible and
be willing to change uh for SEO uh. Some clients
are not. Um I think what you need to do as
a professional is, on your own time, prioritize
what's worth uh fighting for and what's what's
not worth fighting for um. Some things you
need to understand that, you know that it's
the right thing to do, but really is it going
to move a needle for SEO? Probably not,
so you don't really need to argue about it
with your client, you know. Um you can uh
in some cases, and I do this a lot, in some
cases you can try to convince your client
to create a whole different piece of content.
Like I say, okay you can keep this, you know,
because a lot of times clients like to have
pages for things like paid search or social,
uh channels, that kind of stuff and that and
those things just don't work with SEO content
and so you can say okay we can keep these
pages to use for advertising and that kind
of thing, but let's create like a a sister
page that covers the same topics, but is well
optimized for SEO. Um and that usually works
out really well,
because then you can focus all your time and
priority on what we call, we call those like
SEO landing pages. Focus all your time and
priority and SEO kind of uh perspective on
those pages and they get to keep, you know,
their other content um and do whatever they
want with it, you know.
[Mike] Sure, and our last question is: What
are your thoughts um because you could, I'm
just gonna summarize it. They're talking about
keyword stuffing in the alt text and, you
know, what are your thoughts on that, but
they had added added the specific question
about adding hashtags into alt text.
[Joe] I've never heard of that um, so I mean
I I don't think there'd be much value in that
at all um,
unless that hashtag was something that you
think people are gonna search for on image
search uh, but I don't really see that. I
mean, like like I said before, you really
have to understand your query um your query
uh intention and you know you're you're, what
is the, you know motive behind searching uh
query intent, you know. And if, if you think
that users are going to be searching on image
search uh for a hashtag, then yeah you can
put that in your alt text um. I don't really
know if that's really beneficial um, but I
don't see a problem why you couldn't do that
uh. Again, like you know, alt text is for
accessibility uh first and foremost. So if
the image is somehow related to that hashtag
and that makes a good description of the image
then absolutely do that, you know.
[Mike] Sure, um we have a few more minutes
so I'm gonna ask a question that I have that
I wondering your thoughts on. Do does, do
TLDs affect the SEO, because you got there's
a lot, there's a new TLD every week you know:
.vegas, .design, .vote, .nyc?
[Joe] So, the answer is yes and no. So the
answer is this uh, from a technical standpoint,
no. Like from a technical standpoint the algorithm
kind of judges all TLDs the same.
From a realistic standpoint there are a lot
of other factors involved with SEO um and
you have to ask yourself, like at scale, we're
not talking about, like you know, you know,
small stuff. At scale, how easy is it going
to be to get someone to link to, like a .network
or a .market, you know? Like there's all these
different TLDs now and .com tends to be the
preferred one still, because it has the public
interest, you know. The public knows about
that. It's like in commonplace, you know,
uh language now. So you know all these other
TLDs uh it's hard to explain to people that
that might be linking to you, but oh no it's
not .com,
it's .market or you know something that they
maybe didn't even know existed, you know.
Um and so I would say that you know from a,
from a, technical standpoint no you know,
TLD doesn't really matter too much um. It
does matter though from a practical standpoint
and how easy is it going to be to attract
the needed signals. And I would suggest that
everyone pass their domain through the telephone
test, which is like you know, trying to tell
uh trying to tell, you know, someone the name
of your website address over the telephone
and how easy is that to do uh without having
to like spell it out.That kind of stuff. If
your domain name can pass the telephone test,
then it probably will work well for SEO, you
know. [Mike] Cool. Well, I want to thank you
so much uh Joe for your time. Everyone you
can get his deck on the website of the event,
wpaccessibilityday.org to view his slides.
And you're also on Twitter if people want
to continue the conversation, correct?
[Joe] Yeah please uh join me on Twitter @joehall.
[Mike] Uh please when you're on Twitter, please
uh tweet at us @wpaccessibility. Our hashtags
are #wpaccessibilityday and
#wpad2020. Up next at the 1 o'clock UTC time
is Adam and his topic is Accessible Navigation
from Scratch. So again, thanks to Kayla for
moderating the chat and I'll be back with
you in about 15 minutes. Thanks.